Whenever you and I write TypeScript code, we're going to rely upon type inference quite heavily.
This is where TypeScript is going to figure out the different types that are flowing around our application
for us.
However, there are three different scenarios that we're going to look at where we're going to have
to add and type annotations manually instead.
Remember, these type annotations are going to help TypeScript along.
The first example we're going to look at is whenever we have a function that returns the any type and
we need to clarify it.
Now, we haven't really discussed the any type just yet, so we're going to write out first just a little
bit of code, then we'll review what the any type really means and then we'll get a better idea of why
we need to use a type annotation in this case.
So let's get to it.
I'm going to flip back over to my code editor and I'm going to go down to the very bottom of the file
down here.
We're going to add in our three different examples on type annotations.
So I'm going to put in a little comment that says, when to you use annotations?
So case number one is when we have a function.
That returns.
Be any type.
Okay.
So for this example, I want to define a little snippet of JSON as a string, and then we're just going
to try to parse that JSON.
So I'm going to define a new variable called lowercase JSON and I'm going to assign it a JSON string.
So I'll put down a string.
And then inside of here, we're going to write out just a little bit of JSON.
So I'll say Curly Brace, I'll put down X and double quotes, a colon and then ten.
Then why?
In double quotes, a colon and 20.
And then I'll close off the curly brace like so.
So now I could use that string with the JSON parse function and turn the string into an actual object.
So I'm going to create a new variable called How about coordinates?
And I'll assign it the result of JSON parse with that JSON variable.
So in theory, if we now ran this code and console logged out coordinates, we would see something like
X is ten and y is 20.
Like so.
Now there's just one little gotcha inside of here.
If you mouse over coordinates, you'll notice that it has a type annotation of any.
So this means that TypeScript thinks that coordinates is of type any.
In addition, if we mouse over paths right here, you'll notice a lot of nasty syntax up here.
But at the very end of it is something that says Colony.
That means that the JSON parse function returns the any type.
So clearly this anything is something pretty important.
Let's have a quick pause, a little aside here and discuss what the any type means.
And then we'll understand, based on that discussion, why we would need to add in a type annotation
here, even though it looks like there's no errors or warnings with our code.
All right.
So quick aside here, so the first thing I want to review is how the JSON parse function works in this
diagram.
I've got some different values on the left hand side and then we're going to imagine that we feed each
of these different values into JSON parse and then we'll take a guess at what the different types are
that will come out of the function.
Now, in reality, this diagram is just a little bit misleading right here.
In reality, any time we call JSON parse, we get back a value of the any type.
So this column over here on the right hand side, I'm just saying this is what the like maybe the type
would be, right?
This is like we know that the type of false once we pass it would be a boolean.
That's not what we get with TypeScript.
This is just like the ideal world.
So if we fed in a string of false to json parse we get back a boolean.
Again, that's not what really happens.
We get back any but hey, we're just saying we get back a boolean.
If we pass in a string of four, we would get back a number.
If we pass in something that looks like an object with value and then five we would get back a type
that is an object with value, that is a number.
And likewise, if we have a object with name that is pointing out a string, we would get back an object
with a name property that is a string.
And you can see each of these examples very easily.
If you open up a JavaScript console really quickly and you call, say, JSON parse with a string of
like five, we get back a number, right?
Makes sense.
Now, the kind of common theme here is that we can clearly pass in very different strings into this
function and we can possibly get back very, very different value types.
In some cases we might get a boolean, in other cases we might get a number, and then in some other
cases we might get these really complicated objects.
So the goal of this diagram right here is just to help you understand that any time we call JSON pass,
we get back possibly some very, very different value types.
Now, the problem here is that TypeScript cannot predict these different types.
TypeScript doesn't know what we're going to get out of JSON parse because it depends entirely on the
string that we put into that function.
So when you and I are writing code inside of our code editor and we call JSON parse typescript just
plain can't predict what we get back from the function because it will be entirely different based upon
the string that we put in.
And TypeScript is not going to try to like read the string and figure out what it would return if we
called JSON parse.
So as a shortcut, TypeScript instead decides to simply say, you know what, I can't guess all these
different types.
That's too complicated.
So I'm going to say if you ever call JSON Parse, you're going to get back something called the any
type.
The any type essentially means that TypeScript has no idea what type of value is being returned from
JSON.
Parse has no clue at all.
And that's what we see inside of our code editor.
So right here when we mouse over coordinates, typescript is saying this is the any type.
That means that TypeScript has no idea what type coordinates is.
So that's what the any type indicates.
A couple more notes here on the any type.
So any is a type just as string or boolean are.
Any time we have to write out a type of a variable like for example, in a type annotation, we could
in theory put in any just as easily.
Any time we see something that is marked with the any type, that means that TypeScript has no idea
what's going on.
And in general, that is a very bad thing to have inside of our application.
Remember, the entire idea behind TypeScript and all these types and all this kind of stuff is that
we're using TypeScript to catch errors inside of our code editor, and we're able to do that because
of these types, like types like string and number and boolean and whatnot.
If TypeScript knows the different types inside of our application, it can take a look at any time.
We say call a function on an object or reference a property on an object in TypeScript can figure out
whether or not we are referencing a property that actually exists or if it's one that we just made a
typo on.
So any time we have a value that is the any type, typescript cannot do any error checking whatsoever
around that value.
So for example, right now, if I go back over to my code editor.
I can write out coordinates.
Dot.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Like so this is clearly a property that does not exist.
But you'll see that TypeScript does nothing to help me out and tell me that I might have a mistake right
here.
However, if I go back up to any of these other examples where I'm working with variables that have
known type, like let's say, how about speed right here?
If I reference speed, blah, blah, blah, TypeScript is going to jump in very quickly and say, Hey,
that's not a property that exists.
It's only going to allow me to call properties that actually exist, like, let's say to uppercase,
like, so that's fine.
And it's only fine because TypeScript knows that speed is a string.
So again, any time we have a variable of type any it is generally a bad thing because TypeScript can't
do its job.
All right.
So I think that we've gone into enough detail on this, any type.
So let's have another quick pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and understand how we can use a type annotation to fix this
thing up right here.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.